
I parked in my spot in front of the office, greeted the doorman, and entered the elevator. On the way, I grabbed a newspaper, but there was nothing interesting in it, so I threw it away. I entered our department’s room, and before me unfolded a familiar scene. I’d title it something like: “My colleagues, sitting at their computers.” This sight sometimes annoyed me terribly, simply because I saw it every day. I made myself a coffee and sat in front of the computer. At the moment, I was expected to work on a project for software that could think independently. Or something like that. The task came yesterday and was so unclear that I even gave up trying to understand it and spent the whole day reading random stuff on the Internet.

>{.note}There’s no point in developing artificial intelligence—there are enough real ones, who aren’t being used for anything.

My colleagues weren’t much more oriented than I was. But I knew that this would soon change, because unlike me, they were capable of adapting to what was asked of them. Every time we started a project, they would start getting interested in the field we had to work in, and talk about it during breaks. And if we worked long enough, they’d even change as people, depending on the circumstances. It seemed to me that the better a person mastered this skill, the more diligently and confidently they worked, held a higher position, and generally, if Darwin were born nowadays, he could probably prove the theory of natural selection by tracing people’s rise in the corporate hierarchy and the melting away of their individuality, in exchange for their ability to adapt to the environment. And he could give me his spare tickets to Galapagos.

There were ten minutes left until the end of the workday, and my script was empty as a brain operated on by lobotomy. “You can’t commit it like that.” – I told myself. – “That would mean officially admitting you haven’t done any work.”  
I took a deep breath and typed a few lines of code, but they were so wrong that I couldn’t even answer the question why they didn’t work. I tried again. “Why?” now even on the second symbol. And every letter my hand touched spawned thousands of questions, which I couldn’t even grasp, let alone answer.  

I got up from my computer and decided to walk. “It’s clear you won’t finish anything today.” I thought while putting on my jacket.  

On my way out, I turned one last time to the monitor and for a second started to get uncontrollably irritated at the sight of the empty file.

I grabbed the keyboard and lifted it over my head, intending to throw it to the other end of the room, or even hit the monitor with it. But then my anger at not having done anything all day disappeared in favor of the desire to do something, the next day. So I carefully put the keyboard back in its place, and prepared to leave with the idea of going to bed early, to wake up early. I became interested. And just before leaving the room, I turned, brought my hand to the keyboard, and entered into the file exactly one symbol. The symbol “X”

I saved it like that, then turned off the computer and headed to the elevator. A couple-three of my colleagues got in with me (the ones who didn’t stay late at work) and together we traveled the distance from the top floor to the ground floor.  
“This building isn’t bad.”  
“You! Didn’t you hear they’re moving the office.”  
“Where? Hopefully it’s easy to get to.”  

The doors opened, we found ourselves outside, and as if on command headed toward our cars. And it was then, just as I took my first breath of air not processed by the AC, when I saw for the first time what I actually want to tell about.

Here’s what I saw then: from one of the slopes of Vitosha came concentrated light, similar to a laser. It was directed straight up and was so strong that it went through the clouds, and I couldn’t see where it ended. At first I didn’t ask about the source. Because no one else was doing it, I decided that everyone else knew what this was and I was once again the last idiot who didn’t quite get something.  

Soon, however, I realized I wasn’t the only one—while walking aimlessly through the parking lot, I noticed another colleague looking in the direction of the light just like I was, while waiting for the parking barrier to open...  
“Hey Sasho. Did they mount some kind of spotlight there?”  
“It’s definitely not a spotlight.” – I replied. – “Or at least I haven’t heard of a spotlight whose light is distributed like that.”  
“Well, maybe they made one.”  
“Well, there’s only one way to find out.”  
They didn't answer anything replied, the parking barrier opened and they sped off.

I followed him and with some other colleagues together we formed a little traffic jam, as if preparing for the journey to Sofia.  

While stopped at a traffic light, I looked again at the mountain, and for a few seconds focused my gaze on the light. Then the horn from the car behind made me turn my head forward and continue. This repeated a few times, until finally my curiosity prevailed. I hit the brakes. Dozens of horns honked behind me like a choir, and with difficulty I parked the car so the others could pass.  

When I got out, I realized I had parked in front of a garage. I knew I had to find another spot, but the scandals related to parking were so annoying to me that I decided to ignore them, and leave it as it was.

**NOTE:**  
“Just 5 min. Sorry, but I need to know what it is!”

I stuck this one on the car window.  

The air was cold and damp and the wind whistled in my ears. I crossed the mental border of the city (where the asphalt ended), and started walking across the meadow to the highway. When I estimated I was close enough, I looked up.  

The light was still there and instantly all my theories, with which I had explained its origin, evaporated. I felt how infinitely big the world is, and how small we are, and I had the feeling that I even slightly bowed my head. One part of me filled with curiosity. Another—with a raw fear, which I assume engulfed people even before the homo sapiens period. Because the light didn’t come from Vitosha and wasn’t directed at the sky.  

It was exactly the opposite.  

The beam was strong, and at the same time concentrated. I could see its end clearly: a large area of the mountain with a radius of about a hundred meters, which was illuminated so well that I had the feeling I could count the grass blades and pebbles there. Its beginning, however, wasn’t visible—it passed through the clouds, and its primary source was lost there among the stars, light years away from our modest planet.  

Scientists say the universe is infinite, but I don’t think they’re convinced of that. Rather, they accept it’s so, because it’s easier for them to claim it’s infinite than to try to imagine what’s at the end. And they can easily dismiss the claim that there’s *something* there, based on lack of arguments supporting that thesis. But it’s not that easy when the argument is standing in front of me.

From the long staring, my head started to hurt. I knew too that my eyes could get damaged, but I couldn’t tear them away from it, and when my gaze got used to it, it was the only thing I saw. Gradually I started to accept the Phenomenon—I couldn’t explain it, but I accepted it, as I accepted everything else that I didn’t understand. Then the light intensified, and besides the big beam, two more smaller ones came from the sky. One of them was directed somewhere far away among the blocks of Sofia. The other—onto me.  

The moment the light enveloped me, I felt a very strong headache, which was apparently connected to it. The pain signaled my body to move aside and I took a few steps forward. To my surprise, the beam changed its location in accordance with mine. I panicked and started running to get away from it, but it followed me like the spotlights of guards following an escaping prisoner.  

After a while, my strength left me. I stumbled onto the meadow and mentally drifted along the current of what was happening, whatever it was. Then the light intensified. It took me a few seconds to get used to it, and to realize that it was expanding its range, first enveloping the highway I drove on, along with the houses built around it, then the whole city. Afterwards, it continued expanding even faster.

But the real surprise hit me when I looked around: I realized I could see through the walls of the buildings, which were illuminated by the beam. For example, in the house, in front of which I had parked the car, an elderly man and woman were watching TV and discussing the appearance of the show’s host. In the house behind it—a lonely old man. The next house was shared by many boys and girls—students studying at the university two streets away. And the said university? I saw it too—it was empty, except for a lone doorman, who was walking nervously along one of the corridors, frightened by the noise made by the heels of his own coat. And then...  

I looked at the city from a bird’s eye view—the beam had already enveloped the whole country, and continued at a rapid pace to “show me” the neighboring ones. And besides sight, it enriched my hearing. The speech of millions of people merged into one slightly annoying buzz.  

For a few seconds, I saw every single one of them, and could slip into their brain, and find out what worried them, and what they wanted to achieve.  

People constantly discussed each other—they attached definitions to each other, thus striving to unite into one, and simultaneously to separate. Throughout they discussed the direction they should take. And everyone tried to see more than the others. Only I saw everything and my new abilities intoxicated me and made me feel like some higher form of life....  

This, as I said, was only for a few seconds (the best in my life!), because then the light intensified even more, and everything became white again. I stumbled on the ground from pain. And when I got used to it again, the only thing I saw were tunnels.  
And, if we accept it wasn’t already, here it really becomes difficult to tell.

I stood up, and tried to brush off the dust, but my hand passed through my body. Apparently I had transferred to a place that wasn’t material. The houses and people around me had disappeared, and were replaced by endless winding paths, forming a huge labyrinth. I sat for a bit to look at the landscape—the surroundings seemed familiar. I had the feeling that I had visited this place before, and many times, but I couldn’t remember when, and on what occasion. I shrugged and set off along one of the tunnels.  

As soon as I stepped into it, the first of a series of memories invaded my head. The peculiar thing about these memories was that they weren’t about things that had happened to me, but rather about things I had thought about. This one specifically was from my childhood, but I didn’t remember the time or place. Instead I could crystal clearly reconstruct the reasoning I had back then, done with elementary child logic. They were general reasonings—something like “what does mom do at work?” or “Why don’t they let me come with them?“ but at that time these things were apparently important to me. The more I advanced through the tunnel, the clearer I remembered the thoughts that had passed through my head at that given moment. I advanced in my reasoning faster and faster, until finally, I couldn’t continue, because my child logic reached an irresolvable contradiction. At the same moment, the tunnel ended. And that wasn’t a coincidence—the contradiction *was* the wall that marked the end of the corridor. And I was locked in my own brain.

With my expanded vision, I dimly saw the other people, as before. Each of them had their own labyrinth. And each was bumping into its walls alone.  

I went back and tried the next tunnel. This one I had hollowed out as a teenager and in it I reasoned about girls and love. But when I was a teenager, I didn’t know enough about the topic, so this tunnel was also a dead end.  

I continued onward, to my more recent thoughts, but they now contained only programming dilemmas, and were occupied with walls at every corner. I already decided I would never escape this place. On the other hand, I hadn’t escaped before either, and now at least it was bright.  

I lightly stepped toward the last tunnel—the one I had hollowed out a few hours ago, while working on the thinking program. This tunnel was more special—in it, the contradictions were more than in the others, and I spun in it like a fish in an aquarium. And new contradictions constantly appeared, narrowing the tunnel, and making me feel claustrophobic.  

For a few seconds, I felt there was no way out. I remember, what I thought: “Damn it, why do I even have to reason logically, if we can’t reach anything. Can’t I just be free.”  

Suddenly all the contradictions began to disappear, and with them all logical opposites. Black became white, minus became plus, evil became good. The impossible became possible. The walls disappeared. My entire horizon filled with figures, impossible to classify through geometry and all the factors that kept thought on a leash suddenly withdrew. For a second, I saw it soaring freely in all its splendor. And then...  
Then the light turned into darkness.

Now I saw nothing, and the only thing I felt was the pain—continuous strong pain, which seemed to come directly from my brain. Fear slowly turned into panic.  
This state lasted for some time, whose duration I can’t determine, because I have no reference point to measure it by. But then the surrounding world again became accessible to my perceptions. Little by little I started regaining the sensation of my body, and in the darkness dozens of small lights began to appear. I smiled mentally. These lights were a signal that my eyes were fine, and besides a few of them were arranged in a way that seemed damn familiar from somewhere.  
Soon I could also feel the force of gravity, as a result of which I concluded I was in a lying position. Gradually I started feeling my arms and legs, the pain began to subside, and the lights I saw became stronger and stronger.  
Suddenly I remembered where I had seen their arrangement—it was the constellation “Ursa Major.” My little discovery allowed me to conclude with almost one hundred percent certainty that I was lying on the earth’s surface. And when I started feeling my limbs, I confirmed that with certainty. The strange figures and light were now only in my memories. I felt simultaneous relief and disappointment that everything was over.

I got up from the ground and looked around. The landscape around seemed familiar and at the same time strange, like entering your home after a long vacation. With a little thought I remembered where I had come from, and set off to return. 

I sensed the conversation with this person was exhausted, headed toward my car and drove off. I turned on the radio to catch the news, but they were talking about the things they usually talk about, and didn’t mention anything about the Phenomenon. I was overcome with a desire to call someone, but quickly dismissed that thought from my head — my acquaintances were probably sleeping and likely unwilling to wake up to hear about my vision. “Maybe I’ll wait until tomorrow and then with a fresh head I’ll think about it again.” I thought. “If there’s even anything to think about.” I stopped in front of the entrance to my apartment, as I had done thousands of times, and then the pain in my head totally disappeared. I have the feeling that saddened me slightly. The strange gave way to the mundane. “Was there even anything there?” I thought. “Or is this some psychological mechanism for coping with the sensory deprivation, caused by staring at monitors all day?” 
