We are *supposed* to care about everyting that happens to us and the people who are close to us. Everything we experience, it is *supposed* to matter somehow. Or at least that is what we are told and that is what we keep telling ourselves, this is what we keep convincing ourselves, with our gestures to one another and in general through the act of just being us. It is all supposed to be significant, it is supposed to bring us fullfillment and joy. 

But sometimes it doesn't, sometimes we feel like life is a lie, and not just *our* life I mean, feeling that our individual life is a lie, feeling like we are in a void is actually good (we are told), because it makes us trive, because it helps us realize what we want, but life in general. Sometimes we feel that the void is all-encompassing and that there is nothing to hold on to, in order to escape. And at these times our normal worldview, that I described above tells us that there is nothing left to do  but to follow the figurative suicide that our situation entails with a literal one. 

But still that would be totally pointless, wouldn't it? I mean, if you want to disappear, there are better ways. And if you cannot escape from yourself, then maybe your self is an asshole that needs to be put in its place. And so I say, fuck this worldview. And fuck everyone that enhance the guilt that we feel when we want to drop it. I mean, there is nothing personal, folks, we are still all in this together, but you are making it hard for everyone, including yourselves (because you know full well that you are also going to be in our position.) I mean, let's just relax a little, do some math (OK, that's what I do, you can find something else, if you want to) and something else that makes us realize that the world is bigger than us.

