His abilities didn’t start emerging until he was as old as twelve. Still, he had little memories of the time before he had them - mostly he had spent it trying to make sense of things as simple as a spoon while circling around the two rooms in which he was permitted to enter. All that he truly remembered from that time was a vague feeling of abuse. He didn’t have any specific recollections of its source, it was just there in the background throughout most of his childhood. This was the environment in which his abilities flourished.

The first thing which he started observing were changes in the behaviour of his nanny - he had started noticing that once in around 28 days there was one day when she would put him to sleep some 10 minutes earlier than usual and would also deny him at least two things that she usually allowed him. He could guess when one of these days was coming from the way her lips were pointing downwards when she was speaking, as he had already learned to look at the person’s mouth for indications of his behaviour. About once each week (but at different day each week) she would do the exact opposite - she would allow him to do everything that he pleased, During these days her lips were pointing upwards. Sometimes she acted in ways different than those two, but soon he discovered that almost all of these “emotions”, as they were called, were described in a little book written by Charles Darwin, which he found accidentally. He also learned that when knowing an emotion’s origin (which was described in the same book) he was also able to influence it by changing his own behaviour. And not long after he started doing that, his nanny and his parents started allowing him to go out and to do more things by himself. With his new found knowledge, he concluded that it made them happy.

When they sent him to school it was much easier for him to integrate - by that time he had become an expert in reading emotions and there everybody had them and everybody were influenced by them for each and everything that they did. He got along quite well with his classmates and all of this made everyone around him even happier, and for the first time it made him happy too. At that time, and perhaps also in the present day, he defined happiness as the feeling of recognition that you are a person and there are other people like you. His parents had even started giving him missions which they wanted him to accomplish like having better grades or befriending specific people. They were very happy when he did well in these missions, but when he didn’t, or when he wouldn’t want to put the effort in accomplishing them, all of them would make them mad, which was bad for his freedom. Gradually, their feelings had started shifting more and more in the negative spectre. With the help of his abilities, he immediately recognised both the tendency itself and its cause - he had started reading things which they didn’t want him to read - his abilities had surpassed the level which was needed to serve their original purpose and he was picking up not only the people’s personas, but was going deep into their inner selves. He understood that this was not desired, neither by his parents nor by anyone else.

This was how he came to know the difference between the person’s facade and the things that laid behind it. He started noticing the secret world which laid hidden behind people’s everyday interactions. He noticed that many people who were almost as observant as him in other situations chose to play dumb when being lied to, or to purposefully remain ignorant, so as not to put in a situation where their own facade would be in jeopardy. He came to realise that people’s facades consistent not of one, but of several levels, the deepest of which had already started appearing in his classmates’ behaviour, who gradually came to realize that they shouldn’t be acting according to what they really knew and felt, but by what they should be knowing and feeling. Gradually, and in most cases involuntary, they started concealing their true emotions and building facades. And their facades were their cages too, for once they had built them, they could never escape.

Suddenly, he was alone again, trapped in a world which seemed pointless and unrewarding. He had no desire to have a facade, to begin with, so the only way for him to establish contacts with his peers was to give voice to their inner selves. And the more they tried to prevent him from doing that, the more motivated he was to go there and find out why. But he never did. And soon he was back in his tiny little balloon, except neither he nor his parents wanted him out. They were now his enemies. And his abilities - the weapon which he used to keep them away.

What had happened after that? He had never really asked himself that question. He preferred to tell himself and everyone else that he just liked the detective work per se, rather than admit that he used it as a way to protect and to establish himself in the hostile environment which he was forced to inhabit. In retrospect, he was a fraud. In retrospect, there was no other facade so intricate and so complex as his. And he had succeeded to keep it for “all the people all the time”. Until he’d met a person who had created the same set of facades and who, therefore, could read him in the same way as he read everyone else. Kei.
